.TH "INTERCEPT-BOUNCE" 1 "October 04, 2025" "0.1.0" "User Commands"
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH intercept-bounce 1  "intercept-bounce 0.9.0"
.SH NAME
intercept\-bounce \- An Interception Tools filter to eliminate keyboard chatter (switch bounce).
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBintercept\-bounce\fR [\fB\-t\fR|\fB\-\-debounce\-time\fR] [\fB\-\-near\-miss\-threshold\-time\fR] [\fB\-\-log\-interval\fR] [\fB\-\-log\-all\-events\fR] [\fB\-\-log\-bounces\fR] [\fB\-\-list\-devices\fR] [\fB\-\-stats\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-\-ring\-buffer\-size\fR] [\fB\-\-debounce\-key\fR] [\fB\-\-ignore\-key\fR] [\fB\-\-otel\-endpoint\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
An Interception Tools filter to eliminate keyboard chatter (switch bounce).
Reads Linux input events from stdin, filters rapid duplicate key events, and writes the filtered events to stdout.
Statistics are printed to stderr on exit.
.PP
EXAMPLES:
# Basic filtering (15ms window):
sudo sh \-c \*(Aqintercept \-g /dev/input/by\-id/your\-keyboard\-event\-device | intercept\-bounce \-\-debounce\-time 15ms | uinput \-d /dev/input/by\-id/your\-keyboard\-event\-device\*(Aq
.PP
# Filtering with bounce logging:
sudo sh \-c \*(Aqintercept \-g ... | intercept\-bounce \-\-debounce\-time 20ms \-\-log\-bounces | uinput \-d ...\*(Aq
.PP
# Debugging \- log all events (no filtering):
sudo sh \-c \*(Aqintercept \-g ... | intercept\-bounce \-\-debounce\-time 0ms \-\-log\-all\-events | uinput \-d ...\*(Aq
.PP
# Periodic stats dump:
sudo sh \-c \*(Aqintercept \-g ... | intercept\-bounce \-\-log\-interval 60s | uinput \-d ...\*(Aq
.PP
# udevmon integration (YAML):
\- JOB: "intercept \-g $DEVNODE | intercept\-bounce | uinput \-d $DEVNODE"
DEVICE:
LINK: "/dev/input/by\-id/usb\-Your_Keyboard_Name\-event\-kbd" # Replace this!
.PP
See README for more details and advanced usage.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-debounce\-time\fR \fI<DEBOUNCE_TIME>\fR [default: 25ms]
Debounce time threshold (milliseconds). Duplicate key events (same keycode and value) occurring faster than this threshold are discarded. (Default: 25ms). The "value" refers to the state of the key: `1` for press, `0` for release, `2` for repeat. Only press and release events are debounced. Accepts values like "10ms", "0.5s"
.TP
\fB\-\-near\-miss\-threshold\-time\fR \fI<NEAR_MISS_THRESHOLD_TIME>\fR [default: 100ms]
Threshold for logging "near\-miss" events. Passed key events occurring within this time of the previous passed event are logged/counted. (Default: 100ms) Accepts values like "100ms", "0.1s"
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-interval\fR \fI<LOG_INTERVAL>\fR [default: 15m]
Periodically dump statistics to stderr. (Default: 15m). Set to "0" to disable periodic dumps. Accepts values like "60s", "15m", "1h"
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-all\-events\fR
Log details of *every* incoming event to stderr ([PASS] or [DROP])
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-bounces\fR
Log details of *only dropped* (bounced) key events to stderr
.TP
\fB\-\-list\-devices\fR
List available input devices and their capabilities (requires root)
.TP
\fB\-\-stats\-json\fR
Output statistics as JSON format to stderr on exit and periodic dump
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable verbose logging (internal state, thread startup, etc)
.TP
\fB\-\-ring\-buffer\-size\fR \fI<RING_BUFFER_SIZE>\fR [default: 0]
Size of the ring buffer for storing recently passed events (for debugging). Set to 0 to disable. (Default: 0)
.TP
\fB\-\-debounce\-key\fR \fI<KEY>\fR
Key codes or names to debounce. When present, only these keys are debounced (all others pass through). Takes precedence over `\-\-ignore\-key`. Example: `\-\-debounce\-key KEY_ENTER` (repeat flag for multiple keys)
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\-key\fR \fI<KEY>\fR
Key codes or names to ignore (never debounce) unless they also appear in `\-\-debounce\-key`. Example: `\-\-ignore\-key 114` or `\-\-ignore\-key KEY_VOLUMEDOWN`
.TP
\fB\-\-otel\-endpoint\fR \fI<OTEL_ENDPOINT>\fR
OTLP endpoint URL for exporting traces and metrics (e.g., "http://localhost:4317")
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version
.SH VERSION
v0.9.0
.SH AUTHORS
sinity <ezo.dev@gmail.com>
.SH DEBOUNCING

.B Mechanism
.PP
\fBintercept-bounce\fR works by remembering the timestamp of the last \fIpassed\fR event for each unique combination of key code (e.g., KEY_A) and key state (press=1, release=0).
When a new key event arrives, it checks if it's identical to the last passed event for that key/state combination.
If it is identical and the time difference since the last passed event is \fIless than\fR the configured \fB\-\-debounce\-time\fR, the new event is considered a bounce and is dropped (not written to standard output).
If the time difference is greater than or equal to the debounce time, or if the event is different (different key code or different state), the event is passed through and its timestamp is recorded as the new "last passed" time for that specific key/state.
.PP
Key repeat events (value=2) are always passed through without debouncing, as they represent intentional key holds.
.PP
.B Choosing \-\-debounce\-time
.IP \(bu 4
Start with the default (\fB25ms\fR) or a common value like \fB15ms\fR.
.IP \(bu 4
If you experience missed keystrokes, the debounce time might be too high. Try lowering it (e.g., to 10ms or 5ms).
.IP \(bu 4
If you still experience duplicate characters (chatter), the debounce time might be too low.
.IP \(bu 4
To diagnose chatter on specific keys, run with \fB\-\-log\-bounces\fR and a low debounce time (e.g., \fB\-\-debounce\-time 5ms\fR). Observe the logs to see which keys are frequently dropped and the typical time difference reported for the bounces. Increase the debounce time to be slightly higher than the observed bounce times for problematic keys.
.IP \(bu 4
Typical values range from 5ms to 30ms. Mechanical switches might require slightly higher values than membrane switches.
.IP \(bu 4
Setting \fB\-\-debounce\-time 0ms\fR effectively disables filtering, passing all events through. This is useful with \fB\-\-log\-all\-events\fR or \fB\-\-log\-bounces\fR to observe raw event timings and diagnose chatter.

.SH NEAR-MISS

.B Purpose
.PP
The near-miss feature is a diagnostic tool to identify key presses or releases that occur just slightly \fIafter\fR the debounce window closes. It helps understand key timing consistency and identify keys that might be close to chattering.
.PP
.B Mechanism
.PP
When a key event \fIpasses\fR the debounce filter (i.e., it's not a bounce), \fBintercept-bounce\fR calculates the time difference since the \fIprevious passed event\fR for the same key code and state. If this difference is less than or equal to the \fB\-\-near\-miss\-threshold\-time\fR (and greater than or equal to the \fB\-\-debounce\-time\fR, which is implicit for passed events), it's recorded as a near-miss in the statistics.
.PP
.B Interpretation
.IP \(bu 4
High near-miss counts for a specific key suggest its timing is inconsistent or very close to the debounce threshold.
.IP \(bu 4
This might indicate a switch that is starting to fail or that the \fB\-\-debounce\-time\fR might need a slight increase for that particular keyboard.
.IP \(bu 4
Near-miss statistics are primarily useful for fine-tuning the debounce time or identifying potentially problematic hardware switches.
.PP
.B Configuration
.IP \(bu 4
The \fB\-\-near\-miss\-threshold\-time\fR should generally be set higher than the \fB\-\-debounce\-time\fR (e.g., 100ms threshold vs 20ms debounce) to capture relevant events without being overly noisy.
.IP \(bu 4
Setting the threshold to the same value as the debounce time (or 0ms) effectively disables near-miss tracking.

.SH EXAMPLES

Here are some common examples demonstrating how to use \fBintercept-bounce\fR.
.PP
.B Basic Filtering (15ms window):
.IP
.nf
sudo sh \-c 'intercept \-g /dev/input/by\-id/your\-kbd\-event\-kbd | intercept-bounce \-\-debounce\-time 15ms | uinput \-d /dev/input/by\-id/your\-kbd\-event\-kbd'
.fi
.PP
Intercept events from your keyboard (replace placeholder path), filter them with a 15ms debounce window, and create a new virtual keyboard device with the filtered output. Applications should use the new virtual device created by \fBuinput\fR.
.PP
.B Filtering with Bounce Logging:
.IP
.nf
sudo sh \-c 'intercept \-g ... | intercept-bounce \-\-debounce\-time 20ms \-\-log\-bounces | uinput \-d ...'
.fi
.PP
Filter with a 20ms threshold and log only the key events that are dropped (considered bounces) to standard error. Useful for identifying which keys are chattering without logging every event.
.PP
.B Diagnosing Chatter Timing (using logs):
.IP
.nf
sudo sh \-c 'intercept \-g ... | intercept-bounce \-\-debounce\-time 5ms \-\-log\-bounces | uinput \-d ...'
.fi
.PP
Run with a low debounce time (5ms) and log bounces. Observe the reported `Bounce Time` for dropped events to determine an appropriate debounce time for your keyboard (set it slightly higher than the observed bounce times).
.PP
.B Diagnosing Chatter Timing (using stats):
.IP
.nf
sudo sh \-c 'intercept \-g ... | intercept-bounce \-\-debounce\-time 5ms | uinput \-d ...'
.fi
.PP
Run with a low debounce time (5ms) and examine the statistics printed on exit (Ctrl+C). Look at the `Bounce Time (Min/Avg/Max)` and the `Bounce Timing Histogram` for problematic keys to determine an appropriate debounce time.
.PP
.B Periodic Stats Dump (every 5 minutes):
.IP
.nf
sudo sh \-c 'intercept \-g ... | intercept-bounce \-\-log\-interval 5m | uinput \-d ...'
.fi
.PP
Run with default filtering and print detailed statistics to standard error every 5 minutes, in addition to the final report on exit.
.PP
.B JSON Statistics Output:
.IP
.nf
sudo sh \-c 'intercept \-g ... | intercept-bounce \-\-stats\-json | uinput \-d ...' > /dev/null 2> stats.json
.fi
.PP
Output statistics in JSON format to standard error, redirecting it to a file. Standard output (the filtered events) is redirected to /dev/null in this example, useful if only collecting stats.
.PP
.B List Input Devices:
.IP
.nf
sudo intercept-bounce \-\-list\-devices
.fi
.PP
List available input devices with keyboard capabilities. Useful for finding the correct device path for \fBintercept \-g\fR. Requires read access to /dev/input/event*.
.PP
.B Finding Your Keyboard Device Manually:
.IP Use \fBintercept \-L\fR or look in \fI/dev/input/by-id/\fR for device names ending in \fI-event-kbd\fR.
.fi

.SH INTEGRATION

\fBintercept-bounce\fR is designed to work with Interception Tools. It can be used in pipelines or within a \fBudevmon\fR(1) configuration file (\fIudevmon.yaml\fR).
.PP
.B Pipeline Usage
.PP
The standard usage involves a pipeline: \fBintercept\fR -> \fBintercept-bounce\fR -> \fBuinput\fR.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBintercept \-g <device>\fR: Captures raw input events from the specified hardware device.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBintercept-bounce [OPTIONS]\fR: Reads events from stdin, filters them, and writes filtered events to stdout.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBuinput \-d <device>\fR: Reads filtered events from stdin and creates a new virtual input device mirroring the original device's capabilities but emitting only the filtered events.
.PP
.B Virtual Device
.PP
It is crucial to understand that \fBuinput\fR creates a \fInew\fR virtual input device (e.g., /dev/input/eventX). Your applications and desktop environment (Xorg/Wayland) must be configured to use \fIthis new virtual device\fR instead of the original physical keyboard device. The original device will still emit raw, unfiltered events. How to configure the desktop environment varies; sometimes it picks up the new device automatically, other times specific Xorg configuration (e.g., `InputDevice` section with `Option "Ignore" "True"` for the physical device and ensuring the virtual device is used) or Wayland compositor settings might be needed. Check your desktop environment's documentation. You can often identify the virtual device by looking for "Uinput" in its name via tools like \fBlibinput list-devices\fR or checking devices created after the pipeline starts.
.PP
.B udevmon Integration
.PP
Using \fBudevmon\fR is often the most robust way to manage the pipeline, automatically starting and stopping it when the keyboard is connected or disconnected.
.IP
.nf
# Example /etc/interception/udevmon.yaml entry
\- JOB: intercept \-g $DEVNODE | intercept-bounce \-\-debounce\-time 15ms | uinput \-d $DEVNODE
  DEVICE:
    LINK: /dev/input/by\-id/usb\-Your_Keyboard_Name\-event\-kbd
.fi
.PP
Replace the \fILINK\fR value with the appropriate path for your keyboard found in \fI/dev/input/by-id/\fR. The \fI$DEVNODE\fR variable is automatically substituted by \fBudevmon\fR with the actual device path (e.g., /dev/input/event5). Refer to the Interception Tools documentation for more details on configuring \fBudevmon\fR.
.PP
.B Wayland/Xorg Considerations
.PP
Interception Tools, especially global input capture, generally work most reliably under Xorg. Wayland compositors often restrict global input grabbing for security reasons. Using \fBintercept-bounce\fR under Wayland might require specific compositor support or might only work for applications that directly use the virtual device created by `uinput`. Check your Wayland compositor's documentation regarding input device management and potential compatibility with virtual input devices. Some compositors might require specific configuration to recognize and use the `uinput` device.

.SH STATISTICS

\fBintercept-bounce\fR collects and reports detailed statistics about the events it processes. These statistics provide insights into keyboard chatter patterns and filter effectiveness.
.PP
.B Metrics Reported (Human-Readable):
.IP "\fBOverall Statistics\fR" 4
Includes total key events processed, passed, dropped, and the overall drop percentage.
.IP "\fBOverall Bounce Timing Histogram\fR" 4
Shows the distribution of time differences (in milliseconds) between dropped events and the previous passed event of the same key/state across all keys. Helps visualize the typical bounce duration.
.IP "\fBOverall Near-Miss Timing Histogram\fR" 4
Shows the distribution of time differences (in milliseconds) between passed events that qualified as near-misses and the previous passed event of the same key/state. Helps visualize timing consistency just outside the debounce window.
.IP "\fBDropped Event Statistics Per Key\fR" 4
For each key code that had events processed:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Summary line: Total processed, passed, dropped, and drop percentage for that key.
.IP \(bu 4
Detailed stats for \fBPress\fR (value=1), \fBRelease\fR (value=0), and \fBRepeat\fR (value=2) states:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
\fBProcessed\fR: Number of events seen for this key/state.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBPassed\fR: Number of events passed for this key/state.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBDropped\fR: Number of events dropped (bounced) for this key/state.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBDrop Rate\fR: Percentage of processed events dropped for this key/state.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBBounce Time (Min/Avg/Max)\fR: The time difference (µs) between a dropped event and the previous \fIpassed\fR event of the same key and state. (Only shown if drops occurred).
.RE
.RE
.IP "\fBPassed Event Near-Miss Statistics\fR" 4
For each key code/state combination with near-misses:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
\fBCount\fR: Number of passed events that qualified as near-misses.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBNear-Miss Time (Min/Avg/Max)\fR: The time difference (µs) between a passed near-miss event and the previous \fIpassed\fR event of the same key and state.
.RE
.PP
.B Interpretation:
.IP \(bu 4
High overall drop percentage indicates significant chatter.
.IP \(bu 4
High per-key drop counts/rates pinpoint specific problematic keys.
.IP \(bu 4
Bounce timings and histograms help determine an appropriate \fB\-\-debounce\-time\fR (set it slightly above the average or max bounce time observed).
.IP \(bu 4
Near-miss timings and histograms indicate events just outside the debounce window, suggesting potential need for adjustment or failing hardware.
.PP
.B JSON Output (\-\-stats\-json):
.IP
Provides a machine-readable format containing all the same information, plus raw timing data and detailed histogram bucket counts. Key top-level fields include:
.RS 4
.IP "\fBreport_type\fR": "Cumulative" or "Periodic".
.IP "\fBruntime_us\fR": Total runtime in microseconds (cumulative only).
.IP "\fBdebounce_time_us\fR", "\fBnear_miss_threshold_us\fR", "\fBlog_interval_us\fR": Configuration values used (microseconds).
.IP "\fBkey_events_processed\fR", "\fBkey_events_passed\fR", "\fBkey_events_dropped\fR": Overall counts.
.IP "\fBoverall_bounce_histogram\fR", "\fBoverall_near_miss_histogram\fR": Detailed histogram objects (buckets, count, avg_us).
.IP "\fBper_key_stats\fR": Array of objects, each containing `key_code`, `key_name`, overall counts/percentage, and detailed `stats` (press/release/repeat) including counts, rates, sampled `timings_us`, summary fields, and a `bounce_histogram` object.
.IP "\fBper_key_near_miss_stats\fR": Array of objects, each containing `key_code`, `key_value`, `key_name`, `value_name`, `count`, sampled `timings_us`, summary fields, and a `near_miss_histogram` object.
.RE

.SH LOGGING

\fBintercept-bounce\fR provides several logging options for debugging and monitoring, written to standard error:
.PP
.B Log Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-log\-all\-events\fR" 4
Log details of every incoming event ([PASS] or [DROP]). Useful for seeing the full event stream and filter decisions. Note: `EV_SYN` and `EV_MSC` events are skipped for cleaner output by default in this mode.
.IP "\fB\-\-log\-bounces\fR" 4
Log details of *only dropped* (bounced) key events. Less verbose than `--log-all-events`, focusing on problematic events. Ignored if `--log-all-events` is active.
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4
Enable verbose logging (DEBUG level). Includes internal state information, thread startup/shutdown messages, etc. Sets the default log filter to `intercept_bounce=debug` if `RUST_LOG` is not set.
.PP
.B Log Format:
.IP
Log lines generated by \fB\-\-log\-all\-events\fR or \fB\-\-log\-bounces\fR typically include:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Timestamp (ISO 8601 format).
.IP \(bu 4
Log level (INFO).
.IP \(bu 4
Status ([PASS] or [DROP]).
.IP \(bu 4
Relative time since first event (e.g., `+123.4ms   `).
.IP \(bu 4
Event details (Type Name, Code, Value Name, Value).
.IP \(bu 4
Key name and code (e.g., `Key [KEY_A] (30)`).
.IP \(bu 4
Bounce/Near-Miss timing info (e.g., `(Bounce Time: 5.1ms)`, `(Diff since last passed: 26.8ms)`).
.RE
.PP
.B Environment Variable: RUST_LOG
.IP
Provides fine-grained control over logging using the \fBtracing_subscriber::EnvFilter\fR format. \fBOverrides\fR the default level set by \fB\-\-verbose\fR. Examples:
.RS 4
.IP "\fBRUST_LOG=info\fR" 4
Show INFO level messages and above (default without `--verbose`).
.IP "\fBRUST_LOG=debug\fR" 4
Show DEBUG level messages and above (shows internal state changes, thread activity, etc.).
.IP "\fBRUST_LOG=trace\fR" 4
Show all messages, including TRACE level (very verbose, includes per-event processing details).
.IP "\fBRUST_LOG=intercept_bounce=debug\fR" 4
Show DEBUG messages only from the `intercept_bounce` crate.
.IP "\fBRUST_LOG=info,intercept_bounce::filter=trace\fR" 4
Set INFO level globally, but TRACE level for the `filter` module.
.RE
.IP
See the \fBtracing_subscriber\fR documentation for the full filter syntax.
.PP
.B Performance Note:
Enabling \fB\-\-log\-all\-events\fR or high verbosity levels (trace) can significantly impact performance due to the volume of log messages generated and potential contention writing to stderr. The logger thread may drop log messages if it cannot keep up (a warning will be printed). Use verbose logging primarily for debugging specific issues.

.SH SIGNALS

\fBintercept-bounce\fR handles the following signals gracefully to ensure clean shutdown and reporting of final statistics:
.IP \(bu 4
SIGINT (Interrupt, typically Ctrl+C)
.IP \(bu 4
SIGTERM (Termination signal)
.IP \(bu 4
SIGQUIT (Quit signal)
.PP
When any of these signals are received, the program will:
.IP 1. 4
Stop reading new input events.
.IP 2. 4
Signal the logger thread to stop processing queued messages.
.IP 3. 4
Wait for the logger thread to finish and return the final cumulative statistics.
.IP 4. 4
Print the final cumulative statistics to standard error (unless `--stats-json` is used, in which case JSON is printed).
.IP 5. 4
Exit cleanly (typically with status 0).
.PP
This ensures that valuable statistics are not lost even if the filter is terminated externally via these signals.

.SH THEORY OF OPERATION

\fBintercept-bounce\fR employs a multi-threaded architecture to separate the low-latency input filtering path from potentially slower logging and statistics processing.
.PP
.B Main Thread:
.IP 1. 4
Reads raw `input_event` structs from standard input in a loop.
.IP 2. 4
For each event, acquires a `std::sync::Mutex` protecting the shared `BounceFilter` state.
.IP 3. 4
Calls `BounceFilter::check_event`, which performs the debounce logic using timestamp comparisons based on data stored in fixed-size arrays within the `BounceFilter` struct (specifically, `last_event_us`). Updates the state if the event passes. Also updates the optional ring buffer if enabled.
.IP 4. 4
Releases the mutex.
.IP 5. 4
Constructs an `EventInfo` struct containing the event and the filter result (passed/dropped, timings).
.IP 6. 4
Attempts to send the `EventInfo` to the logger thread via a bounded `crossbeam-channel` using `try_send`. If the channel is full, the message is dropped to avoid blocking the main thread.
.IP 7. 4
If the event was not dropped by the filter, writes the original `input_event` struct to standard output using `libc::write`.
.PP
.B Logger Thread:
.IP 1. 4
Runs in a separate thread (`std::thread`).
.IP 2. 4
Waits to receive `EventInfo` messages from the channel using `recv_timeout` to allow periodic checks.
.IP 3. 4
Processes received `EventInfo` messages:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Updates statistics stored in a `StatsCollector` struct. Simple counts use `u64`, while timing vectors (`Vec<u64>`) and histograms (`TimingHistogram`) are updated directly as the `StatsCollector` is owned solely by the logger thread.
.IP \(bu 4
Performs logging to standard error based on the configured logging flags (`--log-all-events`, `--log-bounces`) and log level (`RUST_LOG`, `--verbose`). Logging uses the `tracing` framework.
.IP \(bu 4
If OpenTelemetry is enabled (`--otel-endpoint`), increments relevant OTLP counters (e.g., near-misses).
.RE
.IP 4. 4
Periodically checks if the configured `--log-interval` has elapsed. If so, prints the current interval statistics (human-readable or JSON) and resets the interval stats collector.
.IP 5. 4
Continues until the main thread signals shutdown (by dropping the channel sender or setting an atomic flag via signal handler).
.IP 6. 4
On shutdown, drains any remaining messages from the channel and returns the final `StatsCollector` containing cumulative statistics to the main thread.
.PP
.B State Management:
.IP \(bu 4
The core filter state (`last_event_us` array and optional ring buffer) is protected by a `std::sync::Mutex` to ensure safe access from the main thread.
.IP \(bu 4
Statistics are managed entirely by the logger thread in its owned `StatsCollector`, minimizing contention on the main path.
.IP \(bu 4
Inter-thread communication uses a bounded `crossbeam-channel`, chosen for its performance characteristics and non-blocking `try_send` capability.
.IP \(bu 4
Signal handling runs in a dedicated thread, setting atomic flags to trigger graceful shutdown in the main and logger threads.

.SH PERFORMANCE

\fBintercept-bounce\fR is designed for low-latency input filtering.
.PP
.B Architecture:
.IP \(bu 4
\fBMain Thread\fR: Reads events from stdin, acquires a `std::sync::Mutex` lock on the `BounceFilter` state, performs the debounce check (array lookup and timestamp comparison), updates state if necessary, releases the lock, constructs an `EventInfo` struct, attempts to send it to the logger thread via a bounded `crossbeam-channel` using `try_send`, and writes passed events to stdout.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBLogger Thread\fR: Receives `EventInfo` messages from the channel, updates statistics in a `StatsCollector` struct (using atomics for simple counts and owned `Vec`s for timings/histograms), handles periodic stats dumps, performs logging to stderr using the `tracing` framework, and optionally sends metrics via OpenTelemetry.
.PP
.B Latency Considerations:
.IP \(bu 4
The primary latency contributor on the main event path is the mutex lock for the `BounceFilter` state (`last_event_us` array). This lock is held only during the check and update for each key event.
.IP \(bu 4
Sending data to the logger thread uses a bounded channel (`crossbeam-channel`) with `try_send`. If the logger thread falls behind (e.g., due to slow disk I/O for logging, high CPU load, or slow OTLP endpoint), the channel might fill up. To prevent blocking the main input path, the main thread will drop the `EventInfo` message if the channel is full. A warning is logged ("Logger channel full, dropping log messages"), and the dropped message will not be included in statistics or logs. This prioritizes low input latency over potentially losing some log messages or stats updates under heavy load or slow logging sinks.
.IP \(bu 4
Heavy logging (especially `--log-all-events` or TRACE level) significantly increases the work done by the logger thread and the likelihood of the channel filling up. It also increases overall CPU usage. Enabling OpenTelemetry export (`--otel-endpoint`) also adds work to the logger thread.
.PP
.B Benchmarking:
.IP
Use \fBcargo bench\fR to run microbenchmarks measuring the performance of the core filter logic (`BounceFilter::check_event`) and the inter-thread channel communication under different scenarios.

.SH TROUBLESHOOTING

.TP
.B Permission Denied (reading /dev/input/event* or writing /dev/uinput):
Running \fBintercept\fR and \fBuinput\fR typically requires root privileges or specific user group memberships. Ensure the user running the pipeline has read access to the target input device (\fI/dev/input/event*\fR) and write access to \fI/dev/uinput\fR. Adding the user to the 'input' group often grants read access, but write access to `/dev/uinput` might require specific udev rules (see Interception Tools documentation). Running the entire pipeline via `sudo sh -c '...'` is a common workaround.
.TP
.B Incorrect Device Path:
Double-check the device path used with \fBintercept \-g\fR or in \fIudevmon.yaml\fR. Use stable paths from \fI/dev/input/by-id/\fR or \fI/dev/input/by-path/\fR instead of potentially unstable \fI/dev/input/eventX\fR paths. Use \fBintercept \-L\fR to list devices.
.TP
.B Filter Not Working / No Output from uinput:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Verify the pipeline order: `intercept | intercept-bounce | uinput`.
.IP \(bu 4
Check permissions (see above).
.IP \(bu 4
Ensure the correct device path is used for both `intercept -g` and `uinput -d`. The path must be identical for `uinput` to correctly clone the device capabilities.
.IP \(bu 4
Check if `udevmon` (if used) is running and loaded the correct configuration (`sudo systemctl status interception-udevmon` or similar). Check `udevmon` logs (`journalctl -u interception-udevmon`).
.IP \(bu 4
Run `intercept-bounce` with `--verbose` or `--log-all-events` to see if events are being processed and passed/dropped as expected. Check for errors logged to stderr.
.IP \(bu 4
Ensure your desktop environment is configured to use the virtual device created by `uinput` (see INTEGRATION section). Use tools like `libinput list-devices` to identify the virtual device (often named like "intercept-bounce virtual device").
.RE
.TP
.B Too Much Filtering (Missed Keystrokes):
The `--debounce-time` might be too high. Try lowering it (e.g., `10ms`, `5ms`). Use logging (`--log-all-events`) or statistics to see if legitimate presses are being dropped.
.TP
.B Too Little Filtering (Chatter Still Occurs):
The `--debounce-time` might be too low. Use `--log-bounces` with a low debounce time (e.g., `5ms`) to measure chatter timing from logs, or examine the bounce timing statistics (Min/Avg/Max and histograms) printed on exit. Set the `--debounce-time` slightly higher than the observed chatter duration.
.TP
.B Mixed Output in Terminal:
If running interactively with logging enabled, log messages (stderr) might mix with terminal echo or shell output. Redirect stderr (\fI2> logfile.txt\fR) or use \fBudevmon\fR for background operation.
.TP
.B "Logger channel full, dropping log messages" Warning:
This means the logger thread cannot keep up with the rate of events from the main thread, likely due to heavy logging (`--log-all-events`, `RUST_LOG=trace`), a slow OTLP endpoint, or high system load. Log messages and stats updates may be lost, but input filtering latency is prioritized. Reduce logging verbosity or disable OTLP if problematic.
.TP
.B Errors Reading/Writing Events:
Check device permissions, physical keyboard connection, and system logs (`dmesg`) for hardware errors related to the input device. Ensure `intercept` and `uinput` are functioning correctly.
.TP
.B JSON Stats Errors:
Ensure the output is valid JSON. If parsing fails, check for non-JSON error messages printed to stderr before the JSON output.

.SH EXIT STATUS

.IP 0 4
Success. The program completed normally or was terminated cleanly by a handled signal (SIGINT, SIGTERM, SIGQUIT). Final statistics were printed.
.IP 1 4
Runtime Error. An unexpected error occurred during execution, such as:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Error reading from standard input or writing to standard output.
.IP \(bu 4
Error creating or communicating with the logger thread.
.IP \(bu 4
Internal logic errors (panics).
.IP \(bu 4
Errors initializing OpenTelemetry (if configured).
.RE
.IP 2 4
Device Listing Error. An error occurred when using the \fB\-\-list\-devices\fR option, likely due to insufficient permissions to access \fI/dev/input/event*\fR devices or other I/O errors during the scan.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Controls the logging verbosity and filtering, overriding defaults set by \fB\-\-verbose\fR. See the LOGGING section for details and examples. Uses the \fBtracing_subscriber::EnvFilter\fR format.
.TP
.B RUST_BACKTRACE
Set to \fB1\fR or \fBfull\fR to enable backtraces on panic, which can be helpful for debugging crashes.

.SH BUGS

Please report bugs, issues, or feature requests via the GitHub issue tracker:
https://github.com/sinity/intercept-bounce/issues

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBintercept\fR(1), \fBuinput\fR(1), \fBudevmon\fR(1), \fBinput_event\fR(5), \fBlibinput\fR(1), \fBeudev\fR(7), \fBsystemd-udevd.service\fR(8)
.PP
Interception Tools Project: https://gitlab.com/interception/linux/tools
.PP
Project Repository & README: https://github.com/sinity/intercept-bounce
